---
layout: post
title: How home builders benefit from monitoring what is being voted on
---

Homebuilders associations exist to help their member homebuilders grow and
protect their businesses.  So obviously, they would have a vested interest in
monitoring what is being voted on at local government public meetings because
such decisions can significantly impact homebuilders’ business operations and
bottom lines. Local governments have the authority to create laws and
regulations that affect the building industry, including zoning and land-use
laws, building codes, and permit requirements. Sudden changes to these
“ordinances” can impact the costs and feasibility of construction projects, and
ultimately affect the homebuilders' ability to sell their homes.

For example, if a local government decides to impose new regulations on
building materials or building methods, the cost of construction may increase.
Similarly, if a government decides to change zoning laws or building codes, it
may affect the types of homes that can be built, limiting the builders' ability
to construct the types of homes that are in demand. These types of changes
certainly would make it harder for homebuilders to sell their homes at
competitive prices

By monitoring these local government public meetings, home builders
associations are staying abreast of any proposed changes to laws and
regulations, allowing them to mobilize their members to voice their opinions
and concerns to local officials before the votes are cast, educating officials
about the potential impacts of these changes on the homebuilding industry and
the local economy.

A real-world example of this is the recent controversy over building codes
changes in California. In 2018, the California Energy Commission adopted new
building codes that require new homes to have solar panels installed on their
roofs starting in 2020. This was met with resistance from many local home
builders who argued that the new regulations would increase the cost of
construction and make it harder to build affordable homes. In February of 2020,
home builders were able to convince the Sacramento Municipal Utility District,
a public power agency, to let them take credit for electricity generated by
off-site solar farms, instead of constructing houses with rooftop solar panels.
This increased the ability of local home builders to build more affordable
homes while at the same time to further the goal of more clean energy in the
state . A great example of lobbying local government representatives to
consider the impact of new building codes on the building industry and to find
ways to make the regulations more affordable for builders and homebuyers was a
win-win for everybody.

Clearly, monitoring what is being voted on at local government public meetings
is crucial for homebuilders associations to protect their interests and the
interests of their members. By staying informed and engaged in the
decision-making process, they can ensure that their homebuilder members’ voices
are heard and that any proposed changes to laws and regulations are fair and
reasonable for everybody.
